So AWS is starting to push for hybrid cloud,
and what is hybrid cloud?
That means that part of your infrastructure
is going to be on the cloud of AWS,
and part of your infrastructure
is going to stay on-premises,
and this can be due to multiple reasons.
Maybe you have a long cloud migration,
maybe you have security requirements
or compliance requirements, maybe it's part of your strategy
to only leverage a cloud for elastic workloads,
but to keep a lot of stuff on-premises.
So we have some services that we really like in AWS,
such as Amazon S3,
which is a proprietary storage technology,
which is unlike EFS, which is an NFS compliance file system,
so how would you expose, for example,
the S3 data on-premises?
And the bridge between this S3
and your on-premises infrastructure
is going to be AWS Storage Gateway.
So if we look at the storage cloud-native options on AWS,
we have block storage, which is Amazon EBS,
or the EC2 instance store.
We have file systems, such as Amazon EFS or Amazon FSX,
and we have object-level storage,
such as Amazon S3 or Amazon Glacier.
So now, let's talk about the AWS Storage Gateway.
So very simply, it is a bridge between your on-premises data
and your cloud data, so you have data on-premises,
and you're going to bridge it using the Storage Gateway
to the cloud.
Now, that looks simple,
but we have different use cases for this.
The first one is to do disaster recovery,
so to back up your on-premise data into the cloud,
or you can also do backup and restore,
so to do a cloud migration or to extend your storage
from on-premises to the cloud, and for example,
your cloud has colder data,
and your on-premises data has more warmer,
more frequently used data.
Also, you can, for example, instead prefer
to have the majority of your data stored on AWS
and use the Storage Gateway as an on-premises cache
for low-latency file access.
So there are different kind of use cases,
and therefore, there are different kinds of Storage Gateway,
and there are a few of them,
so the first one is the S3 File Gateway,
the Volume Gateway, and the Tape Gateway.
I will be explaining all of those in this lecture.
So first, we have the Amazon S3 File Gateway.
So we have an S3 bucket,
and we can use whatever storage class we want,
for example, S3 Standard, S3 Standard-IA, S3 One Zone-IA,
or S3 Intelligent-Tiering, but not Glacier,
and we want to connect this S3 bucket
to an on-premises application server,
but we want to use a standard network file system.
So for this, we're going to create an S3 File Gateway,
which is going to allow our application server
to use the NFS or the SMB protocol,
and by using these protocols, behind the scene,
the S3 File Gateway is going to translate those requests
into HTTPS requests for your Amazon S3 buckets.
So from an application server perspective,
it looks like it's accessing a normal file share,
but in fact, behind the scenes,
it is using an Amazon S3 buckets,
and this is how you expose S3 objects
onto on-premises application servers.
Then if you wanted to archive some of these objects,
you could create a lifecycle policy for your S3 bucket
to transition objects after a while to S3 Glacier
in order to have them archived.
So whatever buckets you configure with your S3 File Gateway
are going to be accessible using the NFS and SMB protocol,
and on top of it, the most recently used data
is cached in the File Gateway for rapid access,
so not your entire S3 bucket is on the File Gateway,
but your most recently files
that are most recently used files.
So as I said, it supports different storage classes
for your S3 buckets,
and you can transition to S3 Glacier
using a lifecycle policy.
Now, to access your bucket, you need to create IAM roles
for each File Gateway,
and then if you were to use the SMB protocol,
because it is more native for Windows file systems,
you have integration with Active Directory
for user authentication,
so that means that your users can be authentified
with your S3 File Gateway before accessing it,
and then therefore accessing your S3 buckets.
So that's the Amazon S3 File Gateway.
Next. we have the Volume Gateway,
and this is block storage using the iSCSI protocol
backed by Amazon S3,
and the idea is that you will have your volumes
being backed up by EBS snapshots,
which can, in turn, help you restore on-premises volumes
in case you need to.
So you have two types of Volume Gateway.
You have the cached volumes to get low-latency access
to the most recent volume data,
or stored volume, where the entire dataset is on-premises,
and there is a scheduled backup to Amazon S3.
So here, our application server needs to be backed up,
and so using this protocol,
we're going to get a Volume Gateway,
and the Volume Gateway will create Amazon EBS snapshots
backed by Amazon S3.
So the same logic here,
but here, the goal of the Volume Gateway really
is to back up your volumes of your on on-premises servers.
Tape Gateway is that if you have some companies that have,
for example, a tape backup system using physical tapes,
then with the Tape Gateway, you do the same process,
but the tapes are going to be backed up in the cloud,
and so this virtual tape library, or VTL,
is going to be backed by Amazon S3 and Glacier.
You're going to back up existing data
using tape-based process and using the iSCSI interface,
and then this is going to work
with leading backup software vendors.
So diagram you can expect,
the corporate data center has a backup server,
which is tape-based.
The Tape Gateway will do the interface into the cloud
by storing the tapes into Amazon S3 or in Amazon Glacier.
Finally, as you can see in all these diagrams from before,
the gateway has to be installed
on your corporate data center.
It has to run within your corporate data center,
but sometimes, you do not have virtual servers
to run this additional gateway.
So let's try to summarize the Storage Gateway service.
So we have on-premises,
where we deploy a Storage Gateway VM,
and then we have the Storage Gateway service,
and then we have the cloud of AWS.
So if we want to have a File Gateway with a local cache,
this is the use case, where we have a user group file share,
and we want to access it over the NFS or the SMB protocol.
Option number one, we connect this
into directly an S3 File Gateway,
so therefore, your data is going to be backed by Amazon S3,
and that includes many storage tiers
except Glacier and Glacier Deep Archive.
but we can create a lifecycle policy
to send this into any storage class on Amazon S3,
including S3 Glacier.
Now, the other use case for a Volume Gateway
is to have application servers mount volumes
over the iSCSI protocol.
So what we do is that this Volume Gateway
is going to be linked through Storage Gateway to Amazon S3,
so this is where the data of your volume is going to be,
and then Amazon S3 data can be transformed
into AWS EBS volumes for really being restored on AWS.
Next, we have your backup applications,
connecting over the iSCSI VTL protocol to a Tape Gateway,
and the Tape Gateway is connected to Amazon S3
as a tape library, and then we can transition these tapes
into the Glacier and Glacier Deep Archive tier
to create an archive of your tapes.
So hopefully, that summarizes everything we've seen
in this lecture and you understand it.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.